# CONTROLLING-THE-SPEED-OF-CONVEYOR-BELT-DC-MOTOR-USING-POTENTIOMETER
# Abstract
This project presents an experimental stand for the Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) control of a dc motor used for driving a conveyor belt. It uses potentiometer to vary the voltage. Here, accelerating is much more natural by rotating the accelerator (via a potentiometer) than by just pushing buttons. For supplying the DC motor, the PWM signal is generated by an ARDUINO UNO board, equipped with an ATmega328 microcontroller. For controlling the Arduino, a program has been issued in the Arduino IDE. The purpose of the experimental stand consists of studying the running characteristics of the conveyor belts under laboratory conditions, so that, further on, such driving systems can be implemented to industrial applications as well. Unlike other driving systems of conveyor belts, this system allows the optimization, by trials, of their running duties. The PWM control of the DC motor provides the performances settled at the designing stage. 


# Problem statement
There have been several problems with permanent motor speed while conveying the objects in industries. This project aims to implement the way of using a dc motor that drives conveyor belt at desired speed.

Many systems of controlling the speed of dc motor have been established but this one is pretty easy and flexible as long it is only to rotate the accelerator of a potentiometer for a desired conveyor belt speed. The study has interviews from eleven K-12 teachers in charge of different courses and subjects.

# Block diagram and description


Block diagram of controlling the conveyor belt (dc motor) using a potentiometer

Potentiometer: it is going to be used for controlling the input voltage to the motor
Arduino source code: it is the code to be uploaded to the Arduino to provide the instruction to be followed by the system
Arduino Uno board: the microcontroller which execute the uploaded program and give the output in accordance with the instruction.
DC motor: a 5V motor (conveyor belt driver) run under the conditions provided by arduino.




# Circuit diagram drawn in fritzing

# Arduino Source code of controlling the speed of a dc motor using potentiometer


int pwmPin = 12;

int pot = A0;

int c1=0;

int c2=0;

void setup() {

  pinMode(pwmPin, OUTPUT);
  
 
  pinMode(pot, INPUT);
  
}


void loop() {

  c2=analogRead(pot);
  
  c1=1024-c2;
  
  digitalWrite(pwmPin, HIGH);
  
  delayMicroseconds(c1);
  
  digitalWrite(pwmPin, LOW);
  
  delayMicroseconds(c2);
  
}


# Below is the circuit diagram using a potentiometer and Arduino to control motor speed

